---
title:  "Dhandho Investing"
date:   2017-10-27
image: "/invest/dhandho.jpg"
---
Dhandho is a Gujurati word that means business. However, it is a business in which there is very little risk associated with it and has a proven business model. The hotel/motel business is perfect example of this as it has a history of proven solid business model. This principles of Dhandho can also be applied to stocks where you buy undervalued businesses with a high probability upside and low downside.

> "Heads, I win; tails, I don't lose much!"
>
>  -- Mohnish Pabrai

<br>

### Dhandho Principles
 1. [Invest in Existing Businesses](#existing)
 2. [Invest in Simple Businesses](#simple)
 3. [Invest in Distressed Businesses in Distressed Industries](#distress)
 4. [Invest in Businesses with Durable Moats](#moat)
 5. [Few Bets, Big Bets, and Infrequent Bets](#bets)
 6. [Fixate on Arbitrage](#arbitrage)
 7. [Margin of Safety -- Always](#safety)
 8. [Invest in Low-Risk, High-Uncertainty Businesses](#uncertain)
 8. [Invest in Copycats Rather Than Innovators](#copycat)

<br>

### Invest in Existing Businesses <a name="existing"></a>
If you were to buy a business right now it would be best to buy a business that is already up and running vs spending capital expenditures to build out one. Its better to do this because operations are already up and running. If you buy into a franchised business then the brand recognition and products are already established. You would just need to run the operations.

The stock market gives a person the ability to buy stock and have ownership in a company and it's underlying business. The best part of owning stock is that the business is already up and running without you having to do any of the work. As an investor into great companies you will get rewarded by asset appreciation, dividends, and ability to liquidate your shares.

Like Patels' buying motels and other businesses during distressed times; there are times where stocks of well run companies become out of favor due to fears of uncertainty/headwinds. This is the time to sort through those businesses and start accumulating shares.

Tips to find cheap businesses:
- Low P/E multiple 10 or less is best
- Look for high dividend yielders (occasionally this works)

<br>

### Invest in Simple Businesses <a name="simple"></a>
Before picking a business to invest in you need to figure out it's intrinsic value. Intrinsic value is the actual value of the asset based on the company's underlying business. There are many ways to figure out the intrinsic value but one popular method is the discounted cash flow model (DCF). See this link to find out how to calculate the [DCF](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/dcf.asp).

Picking companies with simple business models and previous history allows us to gather the data and help calculate an intrinsic value of the asset. Forecasting cash flows for a hotel is much easier than say a tech company where the growth rate may accelerate but all of a sudden decelerate. Hotel business has plenty of history behind it with a steady revenue stream.

Write down the thesis for a bull case of an undervalued stock. If it takes more than a paragraph then it's a fundamental problem. If you need to use excel or do advanced calculations then there is a red flag that should be passed on.

<br>

### Invest in Distressed Businesses in Distressed Industries<a name="distress"></a>
When searching for value the best industries to invest in are the ones that are most hated and out of favor. Stock sentiment can change quickly which can ultimately push a price higher but can also decimate a stock in seconds. Remember this, stocks fall harder than they go up; this is all due to human psychology.

When fears and uncertainty rises for a particular stock(s)/sector then usually people sell first and ask questions later. However, in order to sell there has to be a buyer at the other end. The buyer typically has a much lower price which leads to stock price to drastically fall.

Find distressed stocks by looking at the daily headlines online or CNBC which impose fear. Create a watchlist of simple businesses. As PE multiples get compressed (10 or lower) accumulate.  

<br>

### Invest in Businesses with Durable Moats<a name="moat"></a>


<br>
